07/08/2024 0647

Status #idea

Tags:

# S3

Amazon S3 is an object storage service that is scalable that can and will suit all sizes of business/company. Amazon provide management features to help optimise and organise and configure access to your data meeting requirements that you set.

"Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Customers of all sizes and industries can use Amazon S3 to store and protect any amount of data for a range of use cases, such as data lakes, websites, mobile applications, backup and restore, archive, enterprise applications, IoT devices, and big data analytics. Amazon S3 provides management features so that you can optimise, organise, and configure access to your data to meet your specific business, organisational, and compliance requirements."

Amazon S3 is a Simple Storage Service, cloud based object storage service provided by [[AWS]]. It allows you to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere via the internet.
S3 is designed to provide 99.999999999% durability and 99.99% Availability of objects over a given year.
Think of S3 as a large, secure and highly reliable storage space in the cloud.
Feature
	Buckets
	Objects
	Keys
In S3, store data in containers called buckets. A bucket is a top level folder that holds the data and can have folders within them. Each bucket must have a unique name a across the whole of [[AWS]] not just your account.
You can create up to 100 buckets per account as standard. Objects are the fundamental entities stored, they are the actual files and meta data stored. Objects can vary in size from 0 - 5 terabytes in size. Objects are defined by a key or a name within a bucket.
A key is the unique identifier for an object within the bucket. It is the full path to the object. Same as in a file manager on your PC.
Imagine S3 as a library
Each bookshelf is a bucket
Each book is an object
and the books name is the key
The High durability is obtained by making multiple copies across many facilities.
S3 has different storage classes
*Standard* - Frequently accessed and requires high durability and availability.
*Intelligent Tiering* - Unknown or changing access patterns
*Infrequent Access (IA)* - Less frequently Accessed Data that requires rapid access when needed
*One Zone IA* - Data is stored in a single [[AZ]] and costs 20% less that standard IA
*Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive* - Lowest cost storage for data archiving and long term back up
S3 provides multiple ways to access and manage your data securely
	[[AWS]] management console
	[[CLI]]'s
	[[SDK]]'s
More features
Bucket policies - JSON based access control policies attached to S3 Bucket
	- Allow or deny access to specific [[AWS]] accounts, [[IAM]] users or [[IP Address]] ranges
	- Grant read, write or delete permissions to objects within the bucket
	- Enforce encryption requirements for objects uploaded to the bucket
	- Restrict access to specific HTTP referrers or require certain conditions to be met
*Bucket policies* is a way to control access to S3 resources making it easier for multiple users and applications
Versioning is a feature allowing you to keep multiple versions of your S3 buckets, so when you change a file, versioning will not overwrite it, it will create a new version helping to protect against accidental deletions/overwrites. It will give you the ability to restore objects to a previous state and also compliance with regulatory requirements. Versioning can be added on a bucket to bucket basis.

*Life cycle Policies* allow you to automate the management of your objects in your S3 buckets with pre defined rules. With Life Cycle policies you can 
	- Transition objects to different storage classes based on age
	- Expire objects after a specified period
	- Delete previous versions of objects.
It can help optimise storage costs by moving objects to low cost storage options.
Life cycle policies assist in maintaining data hygiene by automatically removing out dated and unnecessary data. They are also defined using XML/JSON configuration files which can be applied to prefixes.
*Uses cases for Amazon S3*
Web hosting - Static websites, S3 servers the website and scales as and when needed depending on traffic volumes.
S3 can also be used for back up and restore. It can be used as a primary storage for disaster recovery.
Archive - move or replicate data to S3 as part of back up, archiving and disaster recovery process
Big Data Analytics - Store and Analyse massive data sets (Amazon Athena or Amazon Redshift)
And great for media files too.


##### Example
[[Project S3]]
# References

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html